Our Rscript takes raw data generated from TrackMate and visualizes it on individual cell and full-experiment scales. TrackMate requires a designated channel in which to look for trackable units. For this, we created a new channel by combining the RFP and YFP images. To correct auto-tracking errors, tracking frames were manually added or removed within TrackMate. Furthermore, after tracking completion, a new “background track” was manually generated, and used to control for noise and background in the written code. This tracked a space in the imaging field with no cells throughout the video. This track should always be the last track made (have the highest TRACK ID in Trackmate) for purposes of the Rscript analysis.
The major steps the Rscript takes are as follows. All conditions are first combined into a single data table. We then define the 5th percentile value for red (mCherry) and green (mVenus) fluorescence. That is, the maximum value of the bottom 5 percent of all green and red fluorescence values. This serves as a baseline around which we build the definition of “background”. Each value above this baseline is assigned a transformed value equal to its number of standard deviations above the baseline. This is calculated for both channels, and we call this transformed value the “fluorscore”. Next, we passed these values through a “smoothing” (local regression analysis) function. The smoothing local regression “loess” function relieves the data of spurious fluorescence spikes or drops caused by cells entering and exiting focus . The amount of smoothing is modifiable in our code, allowing for 3 different intensities of smoothing. This ensures there is no over-correction leading to flattened fluorescence curves. There are also two other modifiable parameters in the form of “general background correction” for mCherry and mVenus (HBRc and HBRv, respectively).
HBRc and HBRv are numerical constants (0.5-3) that are applied to the background fluorescence, fluorscore and z-score values defined by the “background track”. JPEG image outputs for all individual cell tracks are generated at this point. Each track output contains six line graphs: raw fluorescence, z score, fluorscore, small smoothed fluorscore, medium smoothed fluorscore, and large smoothed fluorscore. The x axis represents the movie frame from which the graphed value came. Values of mCherry and mVenus are shown as separate red and green lines. HBRc/v altered background values are denoted via horizonal dashed lines. 
For global analysis, we used the fluorscore values to predict the cell cycle phase of a cell in any given frame. We passed the data through two functions. The first defined cell cycle phase (G1, S, or G2) by comparing mCherry and mVenus fluorscore values to their baseline and to each other. For the full list of parameters, please see the Rscript (github website?). The second function corrects anomalous, aberrant calls the first function may have made . Each cell track is mapped on a graph where x is the tracked frame, and y is a different cell track. Each block in a track is colored according to its associated cell cycle phase. Tracks are sorted on the Y axis based on the amount of cell cycle-active frames. The x axis origin represents the beginning of a given cell track. In all cases, we manually checked each track to confirm the given output for calculating activity percentages. 4 visualizations of the data are generated: one based on the raw fluorscore, and one for each level of fluorscore smoothing.
	We colored G1 cells gray, and combined S/G2 into a single green color indicating cell cycle activity (Fig 5.2G). Divisions were manually labelled with a yellow bar at the frame of division. High initial background necessitated beginning our tracking ~7h after imaging started. Some videos had more cells than were quantified, and cells tracked were picked at random. In some cases, cells (mostly G1) were incorporated into total quantification while not being included in the tracking.
